---
layout: post
title: "On Pride"
date:   2023-06-25 23:50:00 -0700
categories: lgbt, pride, love
---

I had the opportunity to attend a Pride event last weekend with Meilani and some friends who were/are also in similar degree programs to mine. (For context, I’m at the very end of a Master’s of Linguistics program at a school that focuses on training for Bible translation, language revitalization, and developing language programs to train native speakers to take over these processes from ex-pat missionaries who begin local projects.) I spent a lot of time preparing for this with the goals of coming away understanding God better, loving people more, and being able to help other Christians struggling to learn how to love LGBT+ people in a way that brings them closer to the gospel (and therefore True Love) rather than sending them away feeling hated.

What stood out to me the most when we first arrived at Pride was how welcoming and friendly everyone was. I don’t know that we especially dressed like “Christians,” but we were generally in muted colours (someone in our group had colourful eye-shadow, and I wore the only shirt I had with more than one colour on it, a [free] shirt I received randomly from a local business a couple years before… I think it actually was a promotional Pride shirt since the logo had a rainbow background). Regardless, literally nobody expressed having any problems with us being there as Christians. Every person we talked to or interacted with (or who interacted with us!) immediately expressed how happy they were that we were there without knowing anything about us, and nobody missed a beat in continuing to welcome us after finding out we were Christians. Ironically, the only people who had anything negative to say about us were the 1) four counter-protestors standing at the edge of the plaza holding signs with Christian-sounding words but divisive and hateful messages and 2) some fellow Christian students who verbally attacked us for even suggesting it might be worth attending – in fact, for even suggesting that we should try to understand and love random LGBT+ people we don’t know, let alone meet them on their own terms – for any reason. 

Another thing that stood out to me was the diversity. With maybe two exceptions, I have never seen that degree of diversity at any Christian event I have ever attended, including missionary events, and this was not only due to the sheer number of belief systems represented in the crowd (Sikhs, Muslims, Christians, presumably quite a few atheists/agnostics, practitioners (or at least advocates for) some local varieties of First Nations tribal spiritualities – essentially a cross-section of the population of the area. And these people were diverse even within these groups. I met a white-skinned Muslim convert in a rainbow hijab, some workers at a Georgian (the European one) snack stand owned by local Georgian immigrants, political party members, an organization that helps refugees (specifically in this case Ukrainian refugees) find work, a charity that works in foster care (so literally helping widows and orphans), dark-skinned Sikhs in turbans and two-colour outfits, people whose skin colour I couldn’t even see because it was covered by incredibly skillfully crafted and obviously wildly expensive animal costumes with extremely soft artificial fur (one of them let me touch). Every nation and tribe. The musical guests sang songs in English, Hindi, and Punjabi, and the event was hosted on property owned by a local Indigenous technical school on Indigenous land – again, essentially a cross-section. Every tongue.

The third thing, and this was the most unexpected, was how respectful every person was of every other person, even so much as respecting their personal space to a fault. One reason I was a little nervous about attending was that I expected a lot of flamboyant people to reach out and touch me without asking first. Not a single person did. One of the performers (who complimented my shirt actually), addressed me first and acknowledged that they didn’t know me first before giving the compliment. It seems a bit silly in hindsight to be intrigued by that, but there was a conscious sense that you were supposed to respect the boundaries of everyone who was there. The sound guy made a mistake at one point (right before the singer played the best live cover of Folsom Prison Blues I’ve ever heard, mind you), and the performer cracked a joke instead of getting annoyed and then after his set was done took care to ask the audience to applaud him – by name. One younger attendee in a rainbow cape wanted to get on stage and dance with one of the performers, and she let him. After that, about 25 people followed him up there, and they all danced to Punjabi-language music that I bet less than half of the people understood the lyrics to. Every member of my group had ADHD and at least one was autistic, so we all put earplugs in and/or sat down even though performers asked people to continue dancing, and nobody pressured us even once to get up and dance or clap, or, geez, even smile if we didn’t want to. None of the more flamboyant performers tried to force us to join them. They were just happy we were there. Our space was our space, and everyone knew it, and everyone respected that fact for every other person. Nobody said anything about it; it just came with the atmosphere. The focus was on welcoming people on their own terms, not on the sense of being LGBT. There was no reverence for the LGBT symbols over people – if somebody dropped a rainbow flag or their rainbow cape touched the ground and another person accidentally stepped on it, it was no biggie. It was just a flag, not a person. There was no sense of LGBT “nationalism” or a way to measure if you were “in” the crowd or not. Oh, you’re Christian? Awesome, I’m a furry! Wow, did you hear that guy playing Johnny Cash earlier? He was so good! 

If I had to sum up the experience, it would not be “loud, uncomfortable, alien, and overwhelming” like I more or less expected going in. I was actually nervous while parking because I was anticipating some heavy amounts of culture shock. Instead, I would say the entire experience was “loud, welcoming, friendly, considerate, and loving.” I realize the ending to posts like this is always “yadda yadda, the church could learn something from this because we have so much division and stuff, something something gospel,” but, seriously, I felt as much love there (if not more) as I have felt at most church services I’ve attended, and I knew literally nobody there (unless they arrived with me, that is). I was the most outsider person I could have been (unless I had been a cop – I did just the barest bit of research into the history of Pride and learned that the original protest that became the festival began as a June 1969 protest against police brutality, hence why June was named Pride Month, rather than as a parade advocating sexual liberation) and yet I was treated as if I was supposed to be there, and anything I did (or didn’t do) was fine. Not want to be touched? No worries. Not want to dance? Chill. Not want to be gay? Yeah, that’s fine with us bro, can you take our picture with the drag queens? 
Geez, folks, I really actually do think we need to try learning something from Pride attendees about how to welcome people into our churches because I think everyone would go every week (yes, yes, I know that’s not the point, but man I’m just talking about getting people in the doors here) if churches could generate an atmosphere of love and welcome that constant at every one of their meetings. And for the record, while they were certainly a bit more “anything goes” than I think many or most Christians are comfortable with, it’s not just that they accepted everyone and didn’t draw any boundaries: The police brutality protest component of Pride is arguably a bigger deal than the LGBT component. The event page literally had a disclaimer in large text that said something along the lines of “we will have some security professionals for safety, but police are not welcome to attend,” but there was nothing about needing to be LGBT or even an ally or anything. I was intrigued by this and investigated other Pride event pages and this is really consistent – Vancouver police are explicitly not allowed to operate a float in the Vancouver parade even though they’re (presumably) in support of Pride as the RCMP are the ones keeping cars off the parade route, and the event is in partnership with the local government. Like literally you don’t have to be LGBT to participate in Pride events but you are not allowed to be a cop. I say all this to express the following: Whether we (Christians) have the same set of inclusion and exclusion criteria as they do or not, we (both Christians and Pride participants) have certain inclusion and exclusion criteria, so the air of welcome cannot something that Pride “deceptively manufactured” by just allowing anything and anyone. They’re explicitly against police, and yet I felt unequivocally welcome.

I’m not saying that every Christian should make a big deal about attending Pride, and I’m not convinced that you have to be “okay” with everything at Pride either. I definitely saw things that made me very uncomfortable, presumably visibly, and do you know how many people said anything to me, even gave me a dirty look as a reflex? None that I saw, including the people who I’m sure saw that they made me uncomfortable. Every single person was wholly focused on accommodating and loving everyone they could whether they knew them or not, and if there was a reason I felt out of place, it was because I wasn’t doing as good a job loving people as everyone else was. I don’t think I really understood The Good Samaritan until attending Pride this year. We Christians have been Levites and priests for so long that we’ve managed to get away with thinking those nasty Samaritans (barf emoji) hate our guts – and maybe I’m wrong and they totally do – but if that’s true, I sure couldn’t tell last weekend. Several days later, I still feel affirmed by that one performer’s comment about my shirt (and I’m sure most of you know how none at all I care about shirts) because the manner in which she said it was so considerate and genuine. We’ve been preaching at them for so long without understanding even basic amounts of their history (or maybe that was just me), and yet when I showed up to meet them, they said, “I don’t even know you, but I really like your shirt. Have you tried the Georgian fruit preserve nut bars over there?” I also lied a bit to you a couple sentences ago, I’ve thought for so long that I’d been at least the Levite or the priest in the scenario (after all, I’ve taken how many seminary classes, again?), but even thinking I was that kind of wrong was so arrogant that I didn’t realize until now that no matter how well I know God, I was in fact the man traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho, and the robbers who beset me were all the things I thought I knew about what acceptance should look like… which I learned from Christians like me. I’ve been I guess subconsciously thinking Jesus was saying we should be the Samaritan (hated and rejecting the established religion and instead following this heretical carpenter guy who doesn’t wash his hands very often) instead of the Levites and priests, and maybe there are times when this applies, but he’s definitely talking about receiving help even from somebody you think is nasty and depraved and perverted, not giving help to them. How stupid of me to think I have anything to give! I’m just some beat-up dying dude who had the good fortune to be born into a family practicing the “right” religion – you know, the one whose leaders wouldn’t help me because I was dirty and beaten up and I’m assuming naked too since the robbers took all my possessions.

And guess which dirty, queer Samaritans have been my neighbours this whole time.
